---
title: "Student Education About Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Varies Between Regions of the United States"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-2
excerpt: ''
date: 2020-02-20
venue: 'Medical Education'
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11606-020-05736-y'
citation: 'Bunting SR, Battes TJ, Keyes TJ, Garber SS, Goldstein RH, Ritchie TD. (2020). &quot;Student Education About Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Varies Between Regions of the United States.&quot; <i>Journal of General Internal Medicine</i>. 35, 2873-2881'
---

**Abstract:** 

Background: Daily, oral pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is an effective and safe prevention strategy for people at risk for HIV. However, prescription of PrEP has been limited for patients at the highest risk. Disparities in PrEP prescription are pronounced among racial and gender minority patients. A significant body of literature indicates that practicing healthcare providers have little awareness and knowledge of PrEP. Very little work has investigated the education about PrEP among health professionals in training.

Objective:The objective of this study was to compare health professions students’ awareness of PrEP and education about PrEP between regions of the US, and to determine if correlations between regional HIV incidence and PrEP use were present.

Design: Survey study.

Participants: A cross-sectional sample of health professions students (N = 1859) representing future prescribers (MD, DO, PA), pharmacists, and nurses in the US.

Key Results: Overall, 83.4% of students were aware of PrEP, but only 62.2% of fourth-year students indicated they had been taught about PrEP at any time during their training. Education about PrEP was most comprehensive in the Northeastern US, the area with the highest PrEP to need ratio (4.7). In all regions, transgender patients and heterosexual men and women were least likely to be presented in education as PrEP candidates, and men who have sex with men were the most frequently presented.

Conclusions: There are marked differences in education regarding PrEP both between academic programs and regions of the USA.

[Download paper here](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11606-020-05736-y)
